---
layout: post
title:  "Marches League fixture template"
date:   2019-10-02 10.19 +0100
categories: news
author: Lee Davis
---

We have 4 confirmed teams for the inaugural league season:

 

    Abergavenny
    Hereford
    Malvern
    Presteigne

 

I am attaching a template for the Marches League fixtures.  Each team will be allocated to position A,B,C or D through the drawing of lots by an independent person at the Herdsman pub tomorrow evening (in front of witnesses).  I will then send the template out again but this time with the real fixtures drafted in.

 

Now that we have stablished a smaller group I think we can address the delicate matter of time controls.  We may be able to discuss this again when we meet on matchday 1 but it would be ideal if we could agree things before then (if for no other reason as it will help me to set up the clocks before everyone arrives).

 

As you will have gathered I am a passionate advocate of incremental time controls but I am aware that players who have not experienced those are somewhat wary of that approach and would prefer a version of the old guillotine time control; some have also expressed a preference for a 3 hour playing session whereas others welcome the opportunity that playing on an afternoon brings,  to play a higher quality, absorbing game with a more relaxed time limit  in contrast to the 3 hour rush we are used to in evening league chess . There are so many options that I am not really able to construct a ballot (… dare I say referendum?) but, as captains,  I would be interested in your views as to whether you prefer a shorter (around 3 hours)  or longer (around 4 hours) playing session.  I would also like your views on whether you prefer an incremental or guillotine time control.  On the basis that until all the captains meet in person  I need to limit the options a little (otherwise the debate gets very complicated by email) I am proposing the following options:

 

    36 moves in 60 minutes, followed by 30 minutes to finish the game with an increment of 30 seconds per move from move one.

Or:

    36 moves in 90 minutes  followed by 30 minutes to finish  so as to preserve the leisurely afternoon 4 hour playing session.
    The third option would be that we have both time limits possible; the increment and the guillotine and the captains for each match can agree which one to use ( if the captains cannot agree we will either have to have a ‘default time limit’, toss a coin, or allow the tournament controller a ‘casting vote’).

 

 

I should point out that if the game lasted 80 moves this  could mean the game did not finish until 6:20 (but could also finish much earlier).  However I have played 2368 competitive games of chess  - only 183 (7.7%) of them have exceeded 60 moves, and only 22 (less than one in a hundred) have exceeded 80 moves.  I have seen the average number of moves per game variously reported as between 35 and 38.

 

I have also had suggestions that we start at 1:00 or 1:30 rather than 2:00 and I have also emails from players saying they could not start get to the venue for anything earlier than a 2:00 start.

Could I suggest that we stick with a 2:00 for matchday 1 (if for no other reason than I have agreed a 2:00 start with the venue and this will give me time to get to the venue and set things up for you).  When we meet together we can discuss start times for future matchdays.

 

I would be grateful if you could let me know what you think about the above (if you haven’t already), but in the absence of a clear mandate I plan to set up for a 2:00 start on 13th October with the clocks set to an incremental time limit as described above.  If that doesn’t work for us I think we can change it as we go along through the season.

 
